mojo lacks the confidence of his
intrepid neighbours
and not only that his energy levels are
at an all-time low
[Music]
it's been days since he last ate
and as the rainy season wears on food is
scarcer than ever
but nyota is determined and extremely
patient
she spends hours watching and stalking
potential prey
she even memorizes every warthog den on
her patch
eventually her patience pays off
another warthog this time a huge male
with deadly tusks
she needs to get close before she
attacks
the bushes provide the perfect cover
[Music]
mission accomplished now she must
protect her kill
the boar is as big as she is
it takes all her strength to drag it
into cover
it's slow and exhausting work
a hidden island is the perfect place to
defend her kill
[Music]
she calls moja in to feast
after the meal a rare opportunity for
mum and her cub to relax
[Music]
many red-tailed hawks stop for a bite to
eat at bracken cave
in southern texas
high on the menu are 20 million
free-tailed bats that have just arrived
from mexico to breed
it's the largest gathering of mammals on
the planet
as the bats leave to feed each evening
they run the gunplate of the waiting
hunters
for a rookie hawk that's just arrived
they're quite a challenge
she has to learn how to catch them
but she's pitched against the fastest
and most agile bats in the world
the sheer numbers are overwhelming
especially for a beginner
finally she spots a bat that strayed
from the mass
flicks her back claw to hook it
impressive stuff but nothing compared to
the real
top guns
[Music]
so these experienced hunters have
learned the best technique
dive bombing the bats at over 160
kilometers an hour
[Music]
the best can catch a bat with one talon
while still holding another
[Music]
the best of the best stay for the entire
summer
but most migrating hawks simply use the
cave as a drive-through restaurant
lions will normally avoid hunting
in such heat
but they're also opportunists
the lions will need to bring him down
quickly before they overheat
[Music]
even away from the herd a bull is a
formidable opponent
it could go and kill a lion
[Music]
[Applause]
close to overheating they finally
succeed
in bringing him to the ground
but the massive ball is not giving up
against the odds and the full weight of
the lions
he regains his feet
and it is now that the tables turn
the lions are exhausted after a
20-minute struggle
only the bull has the energy to finish
the fight
in such exposed and extreme conditions
the challenge for predators and their
prey is at its most
intense
food is so hard to find this far north
that a wolf pack must search hundreds of
square kilometers
if it's to be successful
and success means raising the next
generation
to do that here the wolves must work
together
[Music]
so the young are raised not only by
their parents
but by their aunts and uncles as well
[Music]
together they try to ensure that each
pup reaches near adult size
before the snow returns
the growing pup needs more than just a
few leverage
[Music]
the wolves need bigger prey and to catch
that
they must hunt as a pack
[Music]
adult hairs may be easy to spot
but they're far from easy to catch
they run at 60 kilometers an hour
[Music]
to catch one the wolves work as a team
right
[Music]
one of them gets close enough to bite
the hair's tail
[Music]
but a hair can change direction in an
instant
[Music]
if it can continue to sidestep and drink
it may ultimately outlast them
[Music]
finally it gets away
the next hair the whole pack gives chase
now numbers count
the lead walls keep up the pace others
run on either side
so the hair can't change direction
a tiny meal for a whole pack
kenya famous for its big cats
the supreme hunters
[Music]
cheetahs specialize in hunting at speed
though fast they're fragile creatures
built to sprint
after small prey they don't have the
strength or weight of a lion to bring
down larger animals
this male is different he doesn't hunt
alone
he's learnt that there is strength in
numbers
[Music]
but here there are not just two but
three
cheaters a band of brothers
they have changed their tactics and by
doing so
have taken their prey by surprise
they have learned that working together
they can bring down
large prey
an ostrich a bird that towers over a
cheetah and is more than twice as heavy
it can't fly to escape danger but it can
lash out
with a deadly kick
a female unaware as yet of any danger
even with three of them this is still
highly risky
if one gets injured the other two
couldn't hope to tackle such large prey
on the other hand if they get it right
the rewards
are huge
the male has spotted one of the brothers
but only one
it's not too worried
then suddenly there are three
the female is slower to realize the
danger and the cheetahs switch
tons
[Music]
it takes the combined effort and weight
of all three brothers
to bring down this powerful bird even
now the ostrich could land
a fatal kick
[Music]
so far the brothers are winning
ostriches have yet to find a way to foil
[Music]
such
you